KZL 757 - Getting Started with Node.js (#145)
kuzzleio/documentation-V2: src/guide/1/getting-started/node-js/index.md

---
layout: full.html.hbs
algolia: true
title: NodeJS
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and Node.js
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and Node.js

In this tutorial you will learn how to install, run and use **Kuzzle** with **Node.js** and the **Javascript SDK**.
We will walk you through creating scripts that can **store** documents in Kuzzle and subscribe to **notification** for each new document created.

## Running Kuzzle

In this section we'll learn how to quickly get Kuzzle up and running using our installation script.

Open a terminal and run the following command:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl https://get.kuzzle.io/)"
```

> This command downloads and executes the installation script. The script checks the system for a set of prerequisites and installs any necessary tools, like Docker or Docker Compose. When the installation is complete it will automatically run Kuzzle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command downloads and executes the installation script. The script checks the system for a set of prerequisites, like Docker or Docker Compose. If something's missing, the script will give you some hints on how to install them. When the installation is complete it will automatically run Kuzzle.
```

```bash
# Kuzzle is now running
```

Your Kuzzle is now running! To test it, you can explore the main HTTP API by clicking this <a href="http://localhost:7512?pretty">link</a> or by using cURL on the command line:

```bash
curl "http://localhost:7512/?pretty"
```

If everything is working you should see a JSON document that contains a list of API endpoints.

<div class="alert alert-success">
Congratulations! You have completed the Kuzzle installation, it will now accept requests on <code>localhost:7512</code>:
<ul>
  <li>via <strong>HTTP</strong></li>
  <li>via <strong>Websocket</strong></li>
</ul>
</div>

<div class="alert alert-info">
Having trouble?
<ul>
  <li>Get in touch with us on <a href="https://gitter.im/kuzzleio/kuzzle">Gitter!</a> We're happy to help.</li>
  <li>Try one of <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/installing-kuzzle/">these</a> alternative installation methods.</li>
</ul>
</div>

## Fun with the SDK

It's time to play with the [Kuzzle Javscript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6). In this section, we will store a document and subscribe to notifications in Kuzzle using the Javascript SDK.

> Before proceeding, please make sure your system has these programs installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, please make sure your system **Node.js** version 8 or higher (<a href="https://nodejs.org/en/download/">instructions here</a>) installed.
```

> * **Node.js** version 8 or higher (<a href="https://nodejs.org/en/download/">instructions here</a>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * Kuzzle

Reviewer: This is quite redundant, no?
```suggestion

```

## Prepare your environment

Create your playground directory and install the [Javascript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6) from the command line using npm:

```bash
mkdir "kuzzle-playground"
cd "kuzzle-playground"
npm install git://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-javascript.git#6-beta
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
If you are performing a clean install you might see some `UNMET PEER DEPENDENCY` warnings, these are safe to ignore as they refer to optional dependencies.
</div>

Then, create an `init.js` file and start by adding the code below. This will load the Kuzzle Javascript SDK:

```javascript
const { Kuzzle } = require('kuzzle-sdk');
```

Next we will instantiate a client that will connect to Kuzzle via websockets. If Kuzzle is not running on localhost, replace it with the corresponding server name or ip address.

```javascript
const kuzzle = new Kuzzle('websocket', { host: 'localhost' });
```

> Next we will add a listener to detect if there is a problem with our connection to Kuzzle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we add a listener to be notified in case of connection error:
```

```javascript
kuzzle.on('networkError', error => {
  console.error(`Network Error: ${error}`);
});
```

Then we have to connect the client to your Kuzzle server with the `connect()` method.

> This method will be wrapped in an `async` function to use the `await` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method will be wrapped in an `async` function to use the `await` construct.
```

* disconnects from Kuzzle after the collection is created or if an error occurs

Run your file with Node.js

```bash
node init.js
```

Your console should output the following message:

```bash
nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi ready!
```

<div class="alert alert-success">
Congratulations! You are now ready to say Hello to the World!
</div>

<div class="alert alert-info">
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on <a href="https://gitter.im/kuzzleio/kuzzle">Gitter!</a> We're happy to help.
</div>

## Create your first "Hello World" document

Create a `create.js` file with following code:

[snippet=create]

This code does the following:
* creates a new document in `nyc-open-data` within the `yellow-taxi` index
* logs a success message to the console if everything went fine
* logs an error message if any of the previous actions failed
* disconnects from Kuzzle after the document is created or if an error occurs

Run your file with Node.js

```bash
node create.js
```

<div class="alert alert-success">
You have now successfully stored your first document into Kuzzle. Click <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/installing-console">here</a> to see how you can use the

>   <strong>Kuzzle Admin Console</strong> to browse your collection and confirm that your document was saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 [<strong>Kuzzle Admin Console</strong>](http://console.kuzzle.io/) to browse your collection and confirm that your document was saved.
```
